.TH YAML_GET_CHILD_COUNT 3 "2026-06-30" "libyaml 0.1.0" "libyaml library"
.SH NAME
yaml_get_child_count, yaml_knowledge_depth \- knowledge tree enumeration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yaml.h>
.PP
.BI "size_t yaml_get_child_count(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" path ");"
.BI "size_t yaml_knowledge_depth(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR yaml_get_child_count ()
returns the number of direct children of the node at the given
.I path
in the knowledge tree.
The
.I path
is a dot-separated key string (e.g., \(lqserver\(rq or \(lqserver.logging\(rq).
Pass an empty string \(lq\(rq for root-level children.
Returns 0 if the path is not found or the knowledge tree is empty.
.PP
.BR yaml_knowledge_depth ()
returns the maximum depth of the knowledge tree.
A depth of 0 means the tree is empty; 1 means only top-level keys exist;
2 means at least one top-level key has sub-keys; and so on.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR yaml_get_child_count ()
returns the number of direct children as a
.IR size_t .
Returns 0 if the path is not found or the context is NULL.
.PP
.BR yaml_knowledge_depth ()
returns the maximum tree depth as a
.IR size_t .
Returns 0 if the context is NULL or the tree is empty.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* After parsing YAML into ctx */
size_t n = yaml_get_child_count(ctx, "");
for (size_t i = 0; i < n; i++) {
    const char *key;
    size_t key_len;
    yaml_get_child_key(ctx, "", i, &key, &key_len);
    printf("root key %zu: %.*s\\n", i, (int)key_len, key);
}
.fi
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Not thread-safe. Use from a single thread at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaml_lookup_scalar (3),
.BR yaml_get_child_key (3),
.BR yaml_knowledge_size (3),
.BR yaml_feed_input (3)
