.TH YAML_SERIALIZE_KV 3 "2026-06-30" "libyaml 0.1.0" "libyaml library"
.SH NAME
yaml_serialize_kv, yaml_merge_events \- serialization and merge helpers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yaml.h>
.PP
.BI "int yaml_serialize_kv(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" key ", const char *" value ", size_t " value_len ");"
.BI "int yaml_merge_events(yaml_ctx_t *" dst ", yaml_ctx_t *" src ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR yaml_serialize_kv ()
is a convenience function that emits a complete YAML key-value pair into
the serializer output buffer. The
.I key
is emitted as a plain scalar; the
.I value
is emitted as a scalar of length
.IR value_len .
This is equivalent to calling
.BR yaml_emit_scalar ()
twice (once for the key, once for the value), but wraps them in a mapping
context automatically. Returns 0 on success, \-1 on error.
.PP
.BR yaml_merge_events ()
merges events from a source context
.I src
into a destination serializer context
.IR dst .
Events are forwarded from the source event queue into the destination;
this is pure event plumbing with no I/O. The caller owns both contexts.
Returns the number of events merged, or \-1 on error.
.PP
This is useful for combining multiple parsed YAML streams or appending
additional events to an existing serializer context.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR yaml_serialize_kv ()
returns 0 on success, \-1 on error.
.PP
.BR yaml_merge_events ()
returns the number of events merged on success, or \-1 on error.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
/* Quick key-value serialization */
yaml_ctx_t *s = yaml_create(YAML_ROLE_SERIALIZER);
yaml_emit_stream_start(s);
yaml_emit_document_start(s, 1);
yaml_emit_mapping_start(s, NULL, NULL);
yaml_serialize_kv(s, "hostname", "localhost", 9);
yaml_serialize_kv(s, "port", "8080", 4);
yaml_emit_mapping_end(s);
yaml_emit_document_end(s, 1);
yaml_emit_stream_end(s);
.fi
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Not thread-safe. Use from a single thread at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaml_emit_scalar (3),
.BR yaml_emit_mapping_start (3),
.BR yaml_get_output (3),
.BR yaml_create (3)
