.TH YAML_EVENTS 3 "2026-06-30" "libyaml 0.1.0" "libyaml library"
.SH NAME
yaml_events \- YAML event types and data structures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yaml.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page provides a comprehensive reference of all event types, scalar styles,
and data structures used by the libyaml event-driven interface.
.SH EVENT TYPES
The
.I yaml_event_type_t
enumeration defines all possible event types:
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_NONE
No event (zero value). Used as a sentinel.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_STREAM_START
Marks the beginning of a YAML stream.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_STREAM_END
Marks the end of a YAML stream.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_DOCUMENT_START
Marks the beginning of a YAML document. Contains an
.I implicit
flag: 1 if the \(lq---\(rq marker was omitted.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_DOCUMENT_END
Marks the end of a YAML document.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_MAPPING_START
Marks the beginning of a mapping (key-value collection).
Contains an optional tag and anchor.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_MAPPING_END
Marks the end of a mapping.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_SEQUENCE_START
Marks the beginning of a sequence (ordered list).
Contains an optional tag and anchor.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_SEQUENCE_END
Marks the end of a sequence.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_SCALAR
A scalar value. Contains the value string, optional tag, and style.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_ALIAS
An alias reference to a previously anchored node.
Contains the anchor name.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_ERROR
An error event. Contains a diagnostic message.
.TP
.B YAML_EVENT_MAX
Sentinel for array sizing (not a valid event type).
.SH SCALAR STYLES
The
.I yaml_scalar_style_t
enumeration defines how a scalar is quoted:
.TP
.B YAML_SCALAR_PLAIN
Unquoted scalar (default, auto-selected style).
.TP
.B YAML_SCALAR_SINGLE_QUOTED
Single-quoted scalar (\(lq'value'\(rq).
.TP
.B YAML_SCALAR_DOUBLE_QUOTED
Double-quoted scalar (\(lq"value"\(rq).
.TP
.B YAML_SCALAR_LITERAL
Literal block scalar (\(lq|\(rq). Preserves newlines.
.TP
.B YAML_SCALAR_FOLDED
Folded block scalar (\(lq>\(rq). Folds newlines to spaces.
.SH DATA STRUCTURES
.SS yaml_event_t
The main event structure:
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    yaml_event_type_t type;
    union {
        yaml_scalar_t           scalar;
        yaml_alias_t            alias;
        yaml_document_start_t   document_start;
        yaml_collection_start_t collection_start;
        struct {
            char    message[YAML_MAX_ERROR_LEN];
            size_t  message_len;
        } error;
    } data;
} yaml_event_t;
.fi
.RE
.SS yaml_scalar_t
Scalar value data:
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    char    value[YAML_MAX_SCALAR_LEN];  /* up to 4096 bytes */
    size_t  value_len;
    char    tag[YAML_MAX_TAG_LEN];       /* up to 256 bytes */
    size_t  tag_len;
    yaml_scalar_style_t style;
} yaml_scalar_t;
.fi
.RE
.SS yaml_alias_t
Alias reference data:
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    char    anchor[YAML_MAX_ALIAS_LEN];  /* up to 256 bytes */
    size_t  anchor_len;
} yaml_alias_t;
.fi
.RE
.SS yaml_document_start_t
Document boundary data:
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    int implicit;  /* 1 if --- was omitted */
} yaml_document_start_t;
.fi
.RE
.SS yaml_collection_start_t
Mapping/sequence start data:
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    char    tag[YAML_MAX_TAG_LEN];
    size_t  tag_len;
    char    anchor[YAML_MAX_ALIAS_LEN];
    size_t  anchor_len;
} yaml_collection_start_t;
.fi
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
This page is a data structure reference. For return values of individual
functions, see their respective manpages listed in
.BR "SEE ALSO" .
.SH LIMITS
.TP
.B YAML_MAX_SCALAR_LEN
Maximum scalar value length: 4096 bytes.
.TP
.B YAML_MAX_TAG_LEN
Maximum tag length: 256 bytes.
.TP
.B YAML_MAX_ALIAS_LEN
Maximum anchor/alias name length: 256 bytes.
.TP
.B YAML_MAX_ERROR_LEN
Maximum error message length: 512 bytes.
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Event structures are value types and can be safely copied.
Context operations are not thread-safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaml_next_event (3),
.BR yaml_emit_scalar (3),
.BR yaml_emit_mapping_start (3),
.BR yaml_emit_alias (3),
.BR yaml_create (3)
