.TH YAML_LOOKUP_SCALAR 3 "2026-06-30" "libyaml 0.1.0" "libyaml library"
.SH NAME
yaml_lookup_scalar, yaml_get_child_count, yaml_get_child_key,
yaml_knowledge_size, yaml_knowledge_depth \- knowledge tree operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yaml.h>
.PP
.BI "const char *yaml_lookup_scalar(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" path ", size_t *" out_len ");"
.BI "size_t yaml_get_child_count(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" path ");"
.BI "int yaml_get_child_key(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" path ", size_t " index ", const char **" out_key ", size_t *" out_key_len ");"
.BI "size_t yaml_knowledge_size(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "size_t yaml_knowledge_depth(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The knowledge tree stores parsed YAML key-value pairs for efficient lookup.
.PP
.BR yaml_lookup_scalar ()
looks up a scalar value by dot-separated key path (e.g., "server.host").
Returns a pointer to the internal value, or NULL if not found.
The pointer is valid until the next
.BR yaml_feed_input ()
or
.BR yaml_reset ()
call.
.PP
.BR yaml_get_child_count ()
returns the number of direct children at the given path.
Use an empty string "" for the root.
.PP
.BR yaml_get_child_key ()
gets the key name of the Nth child at the given path.
Returns 0 on success, -1 if not found.
.PP
.BR yaml_knowledge_size ()
returns the total number of key-value pairs in the tree.
.PP
.BR yaml_knowledge_depth ()
returns the maximum depth of the tree.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
yaml_feed_input(ctx, data, len);
/* Drain events */
yaml_event_t ev;
while (yaml_next_event(ctx, &ev)) {}

/* Look up nested value */
size_t vlen;
const char *val = yaml_lookup_scalar(ctx, "server.port", &vlen);
if (val) printf("port = %.*s\\n", (int)vlen, val);

/* Enumerate children */
size_t n = yaml_get_child_count(ctx, "server");
for (size_t i = 0; i < n; i++) {
    const char *key; size_t klen;
    yaml_get_child_key(ctx, "server", i, &key, &klen);
    printf("  %.*s\\n", (int)klen, key);
}
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR yaml_lookup_scalar ()
returns a pointer to the value, or NULL if not found.
.BR yaml_get_child_count ()
returns the number of children, or 0 if path not found.
.BR yaml_get_child_key ()
returns 0 on success, -1 on error.
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Not thread-safe. Use from a single thread at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaml_create (3),
.BR yaml_feed_input (3),
.BR yaml_reset (3)
