.TH YAML_EMIT_SCALAR 3 "2026-06-30" "libyaml 0.1.0" "libyaml library"
.SH NAME
yaml_emit_scalar, yaml_emit_mapping_start, yaml_emit_sequence_start,
yaml_emit_mapping_end, yaml_emit_sequence_end, yaml_emit_document_start,
yaml_emit_document_end, yaml_emit_stream_start, yaml_emit_stream_end,
yaml_emit_alias \- serializer event emission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yaml.h>
.PP
.BI "int yaml_emit_stream_start(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_stream_end(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_document_start(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", int " implicit ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_document_end(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", int " implicit ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_mapping_start(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" tag ", const char *" anchor ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_mapping_end(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_sequence_start(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" tag ", const char *" anchor ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_sequence_end(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_scalar(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" value ", size_t " value_len ", const char *" tag ", yaml_scalar_style_t " style ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_alias(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" name ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions emit events into a serializer context. Each function
enqueues an event and writes the corresponding YAML text to the output buffer.
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_scalar ()
emits a scalar event with optional tag and style (PLAIN, SINGLE_QUOTED,
DOUBLE_QUOTED, LITERAL, FOLDED).
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_mapping_start ()
and
.BR yaml_emit_sequence_start ()
emit collection start events with optional tag and anchor.
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_alias ()
emits an alias reference (*name).
.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions return 0 on success, -1 on error (e.g., wrong role, NULL context).
.SH OUTPUT
The serialized YAML text can be retrieved with
.BR yaml_get_output (3).
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Not thread-safe. Use from a single thread at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaml_create (3),
.BR yaml_get_output (3),
.BR yaml_serialize_kv (3)
