.TH YAML_EMIT_MAPPING_START 3 "2026-06-30" "libyaml 0.1.0" "libyaml library"
.SH NAME
yaml_emit_mapping_start, yaml_emit_sequence_start,
yaml_emit_mapping_end, yaml_emit_sequence_end \- collection lifecycle emission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yaml.h>
.PP
.BI "int yaml_emit_mapping_start(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" tag ", const char *" anchor ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_sequence_start(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ", const char *" tag ", const char *" anchor ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_mapping_end(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.BI "int yaml_emit_sequence_end(yaml_ctx_t *" ctx ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions manage the lifecycle of YAML collections (mappings and sequences)
in a serializer context. Collections must be properly opened with a start event
and closed with a matching end event.
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_mapping_start ()
emits a mapping start event, opening a new key-value block. The
.I tag
parameter is an optional YAML tag (e.g., \(lq!!map\(rq); pass NULL for no tag.
The
.I anchor
parameter is an optional anchor name for later aliasing; pass NULL for no anchor.
In block style, this produces \(lq{key: value}\(rq pairs; in flow style, \(lq{...}\(rq.
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_sequence_start ()
emits a sequence start event, opening a new ordered list. The
.I tag
and
.I anchor
parameters work identically to
.BR yaml_emit_mapping_start ().
In block style, this produces \(lq\- item\(rq lines; in flow style, \(lq[...]\(rq.
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_mapping_end ()
emits a mapping end event, closing the most recently opened mapping.
.PP
.BR yaml_emit_sequence_end ()
emits a sequence end event, closing the most recently opened sequence.
.PP
Start and end events must be balanced: every mapping start must have a
corresponding mapping end, and likewise for sequences. Nesting is permitted
and tracked internally by the serializer.
.SH RETURN VALUE
All four functions return 0 on success, \-1 on error. Errors include NULL context,
wrong role (non-serializer), or internal queue overflow.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
yaml_ctx_t *s = yaml_create(YAML_ROLE_SERIALIZER);
yaml_emit_stream_start(s);
yaml_emit_document_start(s, 1);
yaml_emit_mapping_start(s, NULL, NULL);
yaml_emit_scalar(s, "key", 3, NULL, YAML_SCALAR_PLAIN);
yaml_emit_scalar(s, "value", 5, NULL, YAML_SCALAR_PLAIN);
yaml_emit_mapping_end(s);
yaml_emit_document_end(s, 1);
yaml_emit_stream_end(s);
.fi
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Not thread-safe. Use from a single thread at a time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaml_emit_scalar (3),
.BR yaml_emit_alias (3),
.BR yaml_create (3),
.BR yaml_get_output (3)
